# Collimator-Segmentation-with-Keras
Use Keras to segment collimator shadow with a UNET and by fitting shadow with a rectangle

Keras implementation of using convolutional neural nets to segment the x-ray collimator shadow in a projection image.  The collimator controls the size and shape of the x-ray field coming out of the x-ray tube for focusing the radiation accordingly to the area of interest. Depending on the patient’s illuminated anatomy the recorded signal can vary substantially within the collimated region. Also due to x-ray scatter from the illuminated anatomy there can be substantial exposure outside of the exposure region.   Two approaches were used to segment the collimator shadow: 1) The first approach uses a UNet convolutional neural network to segment the collimator shadow. For this approach the network classifies whether a pixel was in or out of the collimator shadow. 2)The second approach treats the problem as a regression problem and predicts the width w, height h, rotation theta, and location (tx, ty) of a rectangle that best fits the collimator shadow.  For this approach the network is determining a continuous real-value variable output for {w, h, theta, tx, ty}.  The first layers of the network predict {w, h, theta, tx, ty} which are then fed into a spatial transformer layer which uses this info to determine the location of the estimate collimator shadow.  The spatial transformer layer uses the {w, h, theta, tx, ty} to determine an inverse transformation matrix which is then used to generate an image of the collimator. This is done by either by warping a binary square image or by using an implicit representation of a rectangle. The dice coefficient was used as a loss function.
